Erin Yilmaz
Project Completion Semester: Fall 2019

Compile/run:
     - Compile using
            make
     - run executable with
            ./sorter sortAlg outputMode [filename]
            where: sortAlg is -s1 -s2 or -s3
            outputMode is --print or --save
            
NOTE: If the executable is run with no file provided, it will accept integers from the console and sort them once this input
stops. (CTRL-D)

Program Purpose:
Compare Big-O of 3 common sorting algorithms on a variety of number lists (reverse sorted, almost sorted, etc.).

Files: 
--sorter.cpp: contains main() and calls functions for interactive or
automatic mode, and calls the functions that sort and print the numbers.

--sortAlgs.cpp: contains the implementation of functions
 
--sortAlgs.h: contains the function declarations (interface)

--Makefile: contains compliation instructions.


Data Structures: A vector of integers was used. Sorting algorithms explained:

Insertion Sort (s1)-- The algorithm is in place and worst case scenario is O(n^2)
time. It works by placing a divider(index) between the sorted and unsorted
sections of the list. As the divider moves rightward in the array, the sorted
section grows and the unsorted section shrinks until the unsorted section is
empty. The algorithm works with a loop, by moving the value in a slot to the
left if the value to its left is greater than it.

Radix Sort (s2)--The algorithm sorts by going through the list of numbers to be
sorted, looking at a specific digit, and putting numbers with the same final
digit into the same "bin" or dynamic array. Then it empties the numbers vector,
and refills it in order starting with binZero and going up to binNine. It then
repeats this process with digits of increasing importance. It is O(10 x N)
because the base of my number system is 10 and it takes up 10 bins for each
digit. The big O for time is O(dN) where d is the number of digits of the
maximum number (so d can be considered a constant).

Shell Sort (s3)-- The algorithm sorts by repeatedly halving the "gap" between two
elements of the vector, and comparing them and swapping them if the element
with the greater index is smaller. It goes through the whole array and does
this for each element, then it halves the gap, and repeats the process until 
the gap is 1, at which point it basically functions like insertion sort. The
worst case time is O(n^2), but it is an in place sorting algorithm since no new
memory was needed because swapping uses a constant amount of memory.
